1. Write the code to implement the concept of inheritance for Vehicles. You are required to
implement inheritance between classes. You have to write four classes in java i.e. one superclass,
two sub classes and one driver class.
Vehicle is the super class whereas Bus and Truck are sub classes of Vehicle class. Transport is a driver
class which contains main method.
Detailed description:
Detailed description of Vehicle (Super class):
The class Vehicle must have following attributes:
	1. Vehicle model
	2. Registration number
	3. Vehicle speed (km/hour)
	4. Fuel capacity (liters)
	5. Fuel consumption (kilo meters/liter)

The Vehicle class must have following methods:
	1. Parameterized constructor that will initialize all the data members with the given values.
	2. Getters and Setters for each data member that will get and set the values of data members
of class.
	3. A method fuelNeeded() that will take distance (in kilo meter) as an argument. It will calculate
the amount of fuel needed for the given distance and will return the value of fuel needed for
given distance. You can use the attributes ‘Fuel consumption’ defined within above Vehicle
class to determine the fuel needed for the given distance. You are required to implement
this functionality by yourself.
	4. A method distanceCovered() that will take time (in hours) as an argument. It will calculate the
distance for the given time and speed and returns the value of distance. The formula to
calculate speed is given as speed = distance/time. You can use this formula to calculate the
distance.
	5. A display() method that will display all the information of a vehicle.

Detailed description of Truck (Sub class):
The class Truck must have following attribute:
Cargo weight limit (Kilo grams)

The above class must have following methods:
	1. Parameterized constructor that will initialize all data members with the given values.
	2. It must also override the display()method of Vehicle class and must call display() method of superclass within overridden method.

Detailed description of Bus (Sub class):
The class Bus must have following attribute:
No of passengers
The above class must have following methods:
	1. Parameterized constructor that will initialize all the data members with given values.
	2. Getters and setters that will get and set the value of each data member of class.
	3. It must also override the display()method of Vehicle class and must call display method of
super class within overridden method.

Create a class Transport which contains the main method. Perform the following within
main method:
• Create an instance of class Truck and initialize all the data members with proper values.
• Create an instance of class Bus and initialize all the data members with proper values.
• Now, call fuelNeeded(),distanceCovered() anddisplay() methods using objects of theseclasses.